dbasili danej

David Basili, Dane Jacobson, Assignment 4

Contribution by David Basili: I created the changes necessary for the backend. This included making updates to the backend (which had been made for assignment 3, but not for assignment 2) which simply produced better, more maintainable code, involving a Database class. It also meant adding a parameter for the delay that the functions called by the Database could accept, and then adding the specified delay whenever the database was called. Furthermore, I also worked on the front end of this assignment. This involved creating a WorkerThread class that could call the database in its "run" function in order to get the list of classes specified by the user. However, I kept the old implementation of the function to get class details, since the assignment specifications didn't require that the program still operate immediately after the user double clicked on a class (and since that makes sense in terms of functionality of the app).

Contribution by Dane Jacobson: I worked on the front end for this assignment. This involved eliminating the "submit" button and readjusting the positioning of the remaining widgets as a result. It also meant creating a function to update the list of classes, which utilized the WorkerThread class in order to stop old operations and create a new thread when a more updated call to the server was made. This function was then called repeatedly whenever a change was made to the text fields. A timer made sure that the queue was checked frequently in order to make sure that the states on the screen stay consistent.

Outside help: none

Information sources: we used lecture notes from the lectures on multi-threaded programming, and our code from Assignment 2.

Time doing assignment: 5 hours

Assignment Assessment: This assignment did help us learn. We now understand better how multi-threaded programming works, and how to continually check in order to make sure that screen state is consistent. 

Other Information: because we are off campus, it was hard to test against the example application perfectly, since courselab runs slowly for us. Because timing is so important in this assignment, we are not sure if the delay times are the same for our app as they are for the example application. Namely, whenever a user types in multiple keys at once (say 3 keys), the delay before the list of classes updates is the number of keys typed times the delay factor. We assume this is the case in the example application too, since the database still process all requests, but it was hard for us to test this.