dbasili danej

Dane Jacobson, David Basili, 1

Project Implementation:
Dane Jacobson implemented reg.py SQL logic and code as well as debugging for the reg.py -h output. His idea was that the SQL commands would be generated by sequentially constructing a string based on the presence of specific arguments, thereby limiting our code length and promoting simplicity in our code. He also modified code given in class to create get_title in reg_output.py which helps implement the human readable format for reg.py. The same function was used again in regdetails_output.py. There were some debugging challenges associated with our SQL command construction that he had to resolve due to our faulty understanding of how SQl commands work. Both partners worked on error detection and modularized code to streamline future assignments.

David Basili implemented the initial check files, regdetails_output.py, and the bash script testing files. He had the idea of checking the given arguments and simultaneously constructing an associative dictionary of arguments that could be passed to reg_output.py to streamline the string construction. He also modelled regdetails_output.py after the reg.py commands to keep the code consistent. He solved the "multiple professors and multiple deparments" problem in regdetails by spliting the SQL queries into 4 separate sections with different formatting. Additionally he created bash script test files containing all the sample commands given on the course page (as well as some of our own) in order to test reg.py and regdetails.py outputs. 

Collaboration:
We went to Office Hours briefly to ask about a strange utf-8 encoding error that ultimately turned out to be a problem with copying and pasting from the Notes iOS application. The TA also gave us a hint about a particular assignment test: when a course does not have any professors. Our code was returning an error, but we needed to return nothing in the output.

Time:
We spent approximately 10 hours on the assignment.

Education:
We learned a lot during this assignment! We originally set out with the goal of making our code as modularized as possible, and we think we have done a good job of doing so. We also learned a great deal about SQL queries and relational database programming. Additionally, we also learned how to implement bash scripts for testing and how to handle errors in Python (we already had Python experience before this assignment).

