dbasili danej

David Basili, Dane Jacobson, Assignment 2

Contribution by David Basili: I created the backend and communication between backend and frontend. This involved modifying our Assignment 1 code (which was luckily modular) to fit the needs of this assignment, creating and testing the communication between reg and regserver, and encapsulating it all into a few functions that could be called by the frontend to a) get a list of courses that met the specifications in a dictionary, b) get the details of one class when provided with the classid. I ended up sending dictionaries across from front-end to back-end, instead of sending multiple objects at a time (as was suggested as a convenient way to do it), since I felt that it was slightly easier for me to reason with the logic that way.

Contribution by Dane Jacobson: I created the GUI for this assignment. This involved creating the layout of the GUI, and dealing with event handling when a user submits input or when a user double clicks on a specific class. Doing so required carefully creating and initializing the layout, and then taking advantage of lots of modularity (again) when different functions were called to update and repaint parts of the layout. Specifically, I designed the layout after the colordisplayer.py program demonstrated in class, and then added two functionalities. First, I coded the search function by assigning and event to the submit button, that pulled the data from the text fields and made a query to our database. The resulting classes were then written to the list box in the GUI. Secondly, I coded the functionality to allow doubleclicking on the listWidgets to display the regdetails for a partiular class, by creating an event for the doubleclicking that made a regdetails query to our database - the resultant details were displayed in the popup window.

Outside help: none

Time doing assignment: 8 hours each

Assignment Assessment: This assignment definitely helped us learn. It first of all made the 3 tier design much clearer to us, and helped make clear exactly how a backend server communicates with a database, and how that allows for good modularity in programming. Since we divided up the work, David learned a lot about the server-backend side of things but missed out on learning more frontend information, and Dane learned a lot about the frontend side of things but missed out on learning about the backend. While this isn't a fault of the assignment itself, strongly encouraging students to work together on each element of the assignment might solve this issue.